*Written day before would be event on May 17, 2025*

Welp. Today I'm supposed to be driving to Jackson, Alabama for the Cheaha Challenge but I'm not. After talking through yet another last minute change and email from the race director my wife has (wisely) helped confirm that my doubts about this event are very valid. She agrees with my decision to just cut my losses ($130) and go for a century ride around here instead.

I'm pretty pissed off that I ever signed up for Cheaha in the first place and very strongly recommend against anyone ever doing it. I don't see how this event ever qualified as a "partner" for GFNats. It's nothing more than a last-minute organized, underfunded, understaffed local fondo except now they have *tons* of people to deal with since it is a UCI qualifier (which it should NEVER have earned, imo).

In fact, this entire fiasco has me rethinking my entire dedication to GFNat at all. It hasn't reduced my passion for performance and fitness just opened my eyes to realities I didn't see or chose to ignore—the most important of which is this is all just about money at the end of the day. I got into these events because GFNat seems to have addressed my main concerns with such events from the past but I guess not. Will some say that my "red flags" are just stupid on my part? Absolutely. But I've done more of these events than most people saying that have and I just don't have to put up with it. Plus at 57 I have a lot more to lose when things turn to shit and frankly I don't have to care what other people think.

Here are the last straws that convinced me not to even waste the gas to drive to Cheaha.

The day before the event the director sends a last minute notification that the route has changed. The most scenic and interesting loop inside the state park has been chopped entirely from the route because of "the hotel construction" (who builds a hotel in the middle of a fucking state park?) that they have known about for the better part of a year. This is in addition to the announcement that a massive sink hole has claimed a segment of the road for the Ultra event requiring a last minute change just last week dramatically changing the length and route of the Ultra event. Just think about all that specific training people did for that specific distance, all for nought.

The most important rest stop was previously in the state park. Now they are trying to do it at a tiny trailhead after a portion of the descent after what is a u-turn in the middle of the road with no traffic control. The people most affected by this are the competitive people in my age group, 55+ because they are *forced* to take the hair-pin u-turn while all the other age groups are not. I'm already pissed I cannot do the 100 mile route, which goes up and over, so you can be sure I was planning on riding the puny 84 mile route at a much faster pace—like all the other competitive 55+ people. I mean, if we cannot drop everyone at mile 84 who cannot hold on (which I'm well trained to do) then what else is there but speed up the pace of the shorter route?

So this u-turn change really fucked me. This means that the slow under 55 racers will be grouped with the fast over 55 racers who overtake them. This would normally be fine. In fact, I was counting on it. But because the over 55 have to do the u-turn that peloton group will be insanely stupid dangerous at that point of the u-turn. Competitive riders (like me) would use that turn as an opportunity to break away only to be stopped by people going straight with no way to tell who is going to turn and who is going straight. That point in the ride was *already* a competitive moment since it would allow faster riders to break away on the descent in the state park before the change, now it's even worse because the hairpin turn is followed by a descent and then an overcrowded aide station on a blind turn. Competitive minded riders would use this to descend as fast as possible and build a gap. This is compounded by the fact that as soon as they hit speed the first major left turn is congested with a last minute rest stop and is *on the descent*. Competitive racers will likely skip that rest stop and use this as a break and carry a bit more water to survive until the next rest stop—especially since being heavier (from the water) would power up the descent on a good aero bike with good position (which I have and was planning). Doing this would mean putting a major gap between the leaders. Any competitive rider would have already seen all this and planned for it in advance even if the race organizers did not. 

This last minute change completely destroys the tactical decisions made my competitive cyclists in my age group *at the very last minute in very dangerous ways*. It shows—above all—that the race organizers either don't have a fucking clue how long-distance race events work or just don't care about the slow under 55 riders and competitive 55+ riders. The fact that 55+ riders are *forced* to do 84 instead of 100 when they could have flexed their 20+ hours a week of durability training was the first red flag. I should have stopped my registration when I read that. Now it's just become a shit show that I want no part of, ever.

These organizers have no idea how to put on a competitive long-distance bike race or even a simple Gran Fondo. They have no business being a "partner" event. Adding in the overall time to single timed segment points for an event with -10% descents that are the *best time to gain a gap* should have immediately disqualified Cheaha from being a partner all by itself. This is a recipe for disaster. It's no surprise they are constantly bragging about how high and hard the hill climbs are that has airlifted people missing descent turns because they are pushing the speed because speed matters on the descent if you don't do the fucking segmented timing right. The fact that these organizers don't even see what a shit show they have created is a huge red flag.

Remember, this is all because part of the UCI standing points for Cheaha is stupidly based on *overall time* meaning that all the time savings on descents *matter*—unlike every other Gran Fondo event. This is why these things have segmented points that have *only climbs* to keep it safe. It is the reason I signed up for them in the first place.

The rest stop is no where near as big, positioned on a blind turn, and has deliriously people coming up the end of the climb in the other lane. And these are *open roads* we are talking about with vacationer traffic. This means people will be slamming their brakes on to get to the rest stop while others that want to just get through it and continue their descent will have no where to go. It's one of the dumbest decisions I have ever seen in all of my cycling event history and the entire thing could have been avoided by knowing *in advance* that the entire park was going to be closed *before* selling everyone tickets to this event. The level of incompetence not realizing this until *the day before the event* is fucking astounding. 

The email talks about no ice rags this year because "\[they\] almost lost rights to go through the park last year" because of them being thrown around. Reading this after seeing the "no packs" rule and the videos of race packs filled with tons of people regularly crossing the center line to get an illegal lead reminded me what total entitled shitheads most competitive cyclists are—even the old ones. These are the same kind of people who destroy hotel towels cleaning their chains on Tour Divide. Unfortunately, this sport is overrun with absolute assholes who think the rules don't apply to them and they are never wrong. It's perhaps the single biggest reason I got out of the sport.

The email says that police will be on the road "at times" rather than regularly policing for violators confirming my suspicion that there is no serious dedication to rules enforcement at all in this event. There is a lot of lip service in scary emails but nothing with teeth.

I also saw a video of the entire race being stopped at the top of the climb in the state park after airlifting a person off the mountain who missed a turn on the descent. This eliminated the entire race dynamic of that part of the event. I think all events should be mandated to release statistics about injuries ever year in order to qualify to even be an official event. People need to know. Instead, they sweep these things under the rug and try to hide them to keep from giving their event a bad reputation. Just like anything, money is the ultimate motivator. This is why group rides organized *by one or more of the riders* are always better than these events.

In short, I had my doubts before that email, they were completely solidified when I read it. Cheaha is a fucking joke and honestly the more people who know that in advance the better.

----
*Written week before event*

As I do final prep and research for The Cheaha challenge, the only GFNat "partner" event I'm doing, I see that it includes the overall start-to-finish time in the calculation of final GFNAT points. In fact, there is only a single timed segment (3-mile climb) on the whole 84 mile route for my age group that I'm forced to do instead of the 100. That just sucks. This defeats the main attraction of the GFNat series in the first place. The entire point of timed-segment events is to promote casual fun at the rest stops and camaraderie while allowing serious competition during the timed segments—especially when "packs" are prohibited.  
  
There are also several other reasons I won't be doing Cheaha ever again:  
  
- Forcing 55-59 UCI to do the Medio instead of the Gran  
- Serious descents for miles on roads sharing regular tourist traffic  
- Slow climbers and 6% grade descenders on *the same open roads*  
- Prohibited "packs" during ride because open roads  
- History of serious accidents  
- Sink hole in road took out most of Ultra route in 2025  
- Absolutely horrible road quality for an event of this size  
- No jersey included in $200 entry fee  
- Absolutely stupid jersey designs  
- I just really, really hate Alabama  
- Detours to allow "construction of hotel" in a State Park  
  
Just watch this video to see what I mean: slash BMckMaR44sM. As you can see from that video there are a number of extremely close calls with oncoming traffic and idiots crossing the center line to get an advantage. It goes without saying that none of these riders were disqualified or even penalized for blatantly putting everyone in danger when they swerved back into the lane just in time to avoid oncoming head-on collisions. This is *exactly* why I got out of road racing. It's also the reason I refused to do the Assault on Mt. Mitchell after registering and reconning the route and hearing about the near fatal dog incident. These organized events are suppose to make us *safer* not put us into more danger. Apparently, only the official events done by GFNat qualify as this level of professional. Whistler as well when they close down *the entire highway* for that event. I have no patience for anything less.  
  
So for me Cheaha will be a training group ride with a big hill in it. That's all. The bogus segment + total time points combined with lack of any rules enforcement for cheaters crossing the center line on descents is enough to negate the validity of any results at all, to me. They mean nothing. People cheat in all sorts of ways constantly in this sport and it has always pissed me off. I refuse to be counted among them.