The USA Cycling Gran Fondo National Series (GFNats) is really just a fatigued 20-minute power competition that favors light GCers and climbers who might be pulled along at near recovery pace in other events until the time to launch a 20-minute power attack arrives. Then they leave everyone in the dust who cannot hold their wheel. Those 20 minutes are filled with intense pain and posturing because even a slight advantage might be enough to give up those points. After those 20 minutes of pain are over *everyone* recovers.

Unlike other races, however, there's no need to hold the lead between attacks. Everyone fully recovers. With a "progression average time" requirement of 16 kph (which includes stopped time at aid stations) the competition is as much about having the will power to stay really slow and fully recover as it is to suffer and push for 20 minutes when the time comes. In TdF terms, it is as if the 20-minute power monster attacker teleported his team across the gap with him to draft once they got a perfect break away.

It's also really about training the gut perfectly in order to run 100% on carbs after about 90 minutes. 

----

This unique quality of these specific official GFNat events makes them very special—and wonderful. It also makes training for them *entirely* different than what most people expect.

Training for a century ride that only counts the 10 and 20-minute segments for competitive points requires a much different training focus:

- Massive amounts of low-intensity volume
- Focus on weight and comfort over power and aero
- Train to go as slow as possible *with stops* and keeping above 16 kph "progression average time"
- Dial in best rolling resistance possible (tubeless 28c or more at 58-65 psi)
- Train gut on nutrition specifically available from aid stations of these events

**Dropping weight.**  Lower weight matters way more than higher power for all of these events. In fact, building FTP is a horrible idea until weight is in an acceptable area. I was shooting for 70 kg but now I'm going to go even lower. This means tons more base training miles to keep a healthy caloric deficit. I'll only be able to hit 72 for Asheville but should hit 68 by Nationals. I cannot screw this up. It's the most important thing I can do besides maintain base fitness.

**Lighten bike.** My bike is already as light as it can go. I'll just not carry my phone nor my pump and pack. I'm also going to practice emptying a 750 ml bottle completely and only doing the climb with a single empty one. All the climbs are reasonably within the tolerance of doing it intensely and recovering after it is done so carrying any extra water is really bad. This is especially true because I can fully recover at a rest stop after pushing to my maximum and burning all the matches on every climb segment.

**Rolling resistance.** I'm going to put some ultra light 32m tubeless tires on my aero wheels (which are still lighter than every other wheel set I have). Hitting those small bumps in the road going up that kind of grade has a tremendous impact on forward momentum and balance. Running a much lower air pressure is far more important than having an aero tire. This also makes the recovery on the long distances in between timed segments that much more cozy and also enables me to last longer in the saddle when doing training rides, which I've decided again will be at least three hours every time.

**Nutrition from aid stations.** Carrying my own nutrition up the hill is a huge liability—especially for the first two climb segments. Trying to carry the calories I need to fuel the entire event with me during the whole event is simply foolish. It would probably weigh almost a full kilogram of extra weight when I could just refuel at the support stations. This is *only* because of the timed segment setup. The Suarez official events are also well stocked with actual good fuel sources so I likely do not need anything. I do, however, need to practice gut training for the exact same foods that will be available at the aide stations and I need to do the research to determine what that will be.

**Hill climb training.** I do have a lot of hills in my normal training but I don't currently have a lot of *long* hills. I need to scope those out and ride only those since those are the segments I will be timed on. I really need to find one good hill that is the maximum distance of any timed climbing segment on any of the official events I'm focused on. This specificity should be over the top compared to the competition.

**Group rides are useless.** It makes my heart sing to learn that I don't need no group rides to do what I really need.

**So happy.**  I absolutely love that I discovered all this and found GFNat official events. Training for these events completely jives with favorite way to ride a bike, in a comfortable, upright position taking in the scenery without suffering in aero position, taking stops whenever I feel like it but then kicking ass on a hill climb every once in a while for some excitement. These are my favorite type of rides and groups who appreciate the same thing. This is what originally attracted me to bike touring. In fact, you could say that the way GFNat is designed it caters to people who enjoy bike touring but just want to drop the heavy bike and gear and compete every once in a while. In fact, bike touring all by itself is *excellent* training for these events. Peloton skills are certainly valuable in general but they have absolutely no bearing on competitive results of these events because the speeds are so slow on the climbs the aerodynamic gains of pack riding are negligible. That's right. You don't even have to be in a pack to win. If I am light enough and have a kick-ass 10-minute power I can dominate without ever drafting off a single wheel. This makes me so happy I cannot even say. I fucking hate most pelotons. They are filled with dangerous egomaniacs and Karens who all think they are god's gift to cycling. I got nothing against them wanting to do their thing in their way. I just want nothing to do with it. This is why I [hate Cheaha Challenge](Cheaha%20Challenge%20is%20a%20bad%20joke.md) and loved triathlons so much. There's no cheating. You either have the fitness or you don't. You cannot make up for it by sucking someone's wheel or rejoining the group because of some traffic anomaly, or winning the race because your competition was taken out by an idiot cross-wheeling in front of him. I fucking *love* this because it allows those who have really put in the time to shine above all the rest. To compete in these events takes massive dedication and time, way more than the average road racer or group ride sprinter. This is what I was looking for. Now I just have to put in the hours.