The USA Cycling Gran Fondo National Series is really just a climbing competition. You could say each race is just four intense hill climb races connected with a recovery rides. Only one timed segment (Maryland T-3) of the 12 I will be doing contains any significant descent at all. With a "progression average time" requirement of 16 kph (which includes stopped time at aid stations) the competition is as much about having the will power to stay really slow and fully recover as it is to suffer during the climbs. This unique quality of the official GFNat events makes them very special—and wonderful. It also makes training for them entirely different than what most people expect.

The most important thing to train for these events is *durability*. Maryland T-4 is 10 miles long (16 km) and starts at mile 41 (66 km) but that is after three other grueling hill climbs. Training for this therefore requires regularly riding 70 km and *then* riding the fastest possible for about 20 km without blowing up so bad I cannot complete the remaining 80 km. I can limp to the end as slow as possible (10 mph "average progression" only applies to timed segments) but I have to finish.

Training for a century ride that only counts the climbing for competitive points requires a much different training focus:

- Massive amounts of low-intensity volume (regular weekend centuries, 2-5 hours zone 2 per week day)
- Focus on weight (68 kg or less) and comfort over power and aero (absolutely no weight training)
- Practice going as slow as possible *with stops* and keeping above 16 kph "progression average time"
- Lighten the bike as much as possible (comfy climbing wheels, etc.)
- Make the bike as comfortable as possible (endurance, fully upright position, saddle)
- Dial in best rolling resistance possible (tubeless 28c or more at 58-65 psi)
- Train gut on nutrition specifically available from aid stations

**Dropping weight.**  Lower weight matters way more than higher power for all of these events. In fact, building FTP is a horrible idea until weight is in an acceptable area. I was shooting for 70 kg but now I'm going to go even lower. This means tons more base training miles to keep a healthy caloric deficit. I'll only be able to hit 72 for Asheville but should hit 68 by Nationals. I cannot screw this up. It's the most important thing I can do besides maintain base fitness.

**Lighten bike.** My bike is already as light as it can go. I'll just not carry my phone nor my pump and pack. I'm also going to practice emptying a 750 ml bottle completely and only doing the climb with a single empty one. All the climbs are reasonably within the tolerance of doing it intensely and recovering after it is done so carrying any extra water is really bad. This is especially true because I can fully recover at a rest stop after pushing to my maximum and burning all the matches on every climb segment.

**Rolling resistance.** I'm going to put some ultra light 32m tubeless tires on my aero wheels (which are still lighter than every other wheel set I have). Hitting those small bumps in the road going up that kind of grade has a tremendous impact on forward momentum and balance. Running a much lower air pressure is far more important than having an aero tire. This also makes the recovery on the long distances in between timed segments that much more cozy and also enables me to last longer in the saddle when doing training rides, which I've decided again will be at least three hours every time.

**Nutrition from aid stations.** Carrying my own nutrition up the hill is a huge liability—especially for the first two climb segments. Trying to carry the calories I need to fuel the entire event with me during the whole event is simply foolish. It would probably weigh almost a full kilogram of extra weight when I could just refuel at the support stations. This is *only* because of the timed segment setup. The Suarez official events are also well stocked with actual good fuel sources so I likely do not need anything. I do, however, need to practice gut training for the exact same foods that will be available at the aide stations and I need to do the research to determine what that will be.

**Hill climb training.** I do have a lot of hills in my normal training but I don't currently have a lot of *long* hills. I need to scope those out and ride only those since those are the segments I will be timed on. I really need to find one good hill that is the maximum distance of any timed climbing segment on any of the official events I'm focused on. This specificity should be over the top compared to the competition.

**Group rides are useless.** It makes my heart sing to learn that I don't need no group rides to do what I really need.

**So happy.**  I absolutely love that I discovered all this and found GFNat. Training for these events completely jives with favorite way to ride a bike, in a comfortable, upright position taking in the scenery and not suffering at all, taking stops whenever I feel like it but then kicking ass on a hill climb every once in a while for some excitement. This is what originally attracted me to bike touring.  In fact, you could say that the way GFNat is designed it caters to people who enjoy bike touring but just want to drop the heavy bike and gear and compete every once in a while. In fact, bike touring all by itself is *excellent* training for these events. Peloton skills are certainly valuable in general but they have absolutely no bearing on competitive results of these events because the speeds are so slow on the climbs the aerodynamic gains of pack riding are negligible. That's right. You don't even have to be in a pack to win. If I am light enough and have a kick-ass 10-minute power