Perhaps the single hardest decision I have ever had to make about gear is about which shoes to wear and what pedals to go with those shoes. Shoes are the most important piece of clothing any rider wears. The wrong pick and not only do you lose 5-10 watts of power right away but you also risk serious damage to your feet over long rides and the ability to easily recover from a problem.

The problem stems from the fact that all the types of riding I like fall under the all-road category. Long 100-mile gran fondos are almost entirely compatible with loaded down adventure cycling (100-200 miles per day). It does not make sense for me to have a gravel bike. If riding anything with over 50% gravel I'll just take my XC mountain bike instead. Plus those 1x drivetrains are just stupid on anything long with variable hill grades. Having only one bike for all of this is what forces the pedal selection issue. Sure I can swap out pedals now and then but I probably don't want to be doing that too much.

Comfortable shoes with no hot spots means you get more watts *when it matters* four hours into a long ride. Sure road shoes are faster for punchy climbs and chases but when you can't feel your feet or you have shooting pain up your leg from all the failed pressure points in even the best road shoes you lose the ability to do those things. Plus, on a multi-day event all the poor circulation on the first day means you start out compromised on the second day. All this to say that *comfortable* shoes are simply faster than stiff shoes for any ride that is 80 miles or more and *always* better on any event that has consecutive days that are not even 50 miles per day.

Shoes with traction are safer. The worse injury I have had in the last five years was when I struggled to keep my heav