On this quiet early Monday morning—after registering for several Suarez National Gran Fondo National Series events— I'm realizing something I've always known. I am a very competitive person—with myself. This is why I've always liked timed events, of whatever kind.

I've been timing myself forever. As a kid I would time myself running 100 meters to get the President's Physical Fitness Award, or to see how fast I could skateboard down our gradually sloping suburban street, or bike around the dirt track we made around the house. Later I would discover cross-country running as well. I'd even time myself to bike to my girlfriend's house or my friend's house for the next DnD game. There's something about seeing those few seconds of improvement every time.

I don't get a lot of pleasure about being faster than anyone else. If anything I just want that cool jersey or medal you can get if you do. If I have to beat someone else to get it, so be it. Of course, the prize money has *never* motivated me. The reality is that competing against other people is never as good as competing against myself—ever. I learned very early that some people have this or that genetic or financial advantage that I will never have.  Other slime balls like Pantani and Armstrong are content to cheat in disgusting ways because to them winning matters more than actually being legitimately good. Guess what? These asshole cheaters aren't only in pro pelotons. They're *everywhere*. This is why competing against myself is the only *authentic* form of competition.

This is also why I have never liked team sports. I was on a "bad news bears" baseball team that was beyond pathetic. I hated it. I also played four years of soccer (international football) and there were only a couple games that really mattered. One of them was an experiment where I ran around the field lying to every team mate pumping up their egos just to see if it would help. It did. We won. It was exhausting. I absolutely love football as a sport but the team dynamic is always a problem. I appreciate just how amazing it is when a team manages to all be on their best together. But yeah, just being on a team is mentally exhausting in a way that is never enjoyable, to me. I had similar experiences playing basketball or volleyball. I absolutely detest team sports now.

I played tennis for years as well. I was good, really good, just never better than most of the people I played.  When I was I was *so* much better than them that it was just ridiculous. The worst was that I would sometimes play down to their level either to be nice or because that is just what happens. My best friend at the time was better than me. When my dad would take us out to play he would play against us as doubles. Clearly my friend was better than me (even though he was dumb as a brick). My dad would favor him. Eventually, I'd learn that he would take my friend out to play without me because he wanted a good game. He tried to not let me know. Yeah, that really happened. I never played with him again after that. I still don't think he knows how angry that made me. Once again, competing against anyone but myself failed me. I got *really* good at playing against the wall. I actually really enjoyed it. Go figure.

Even though competition against myself is my main motivator, I always want to discover and perfect the things that I'm naturally better at than most other people. I'm ridiculously good at picking up foreign languages, writing, and teaching, and I discovered early what I would now call a naturally high V02 max along with the ability to suffer through endurance events. You could say I've "out suffered" others many times. 

Endurance sports are definitely mental.  Meditative control is critical to keeping stress levels low and focusing on the outcome, so much so that I consider some endurance training tantamount to *true* yoga which, contrary to what most people think, is actually primarily about calming mental fluctuations (Yoga Sutra #1) along with breath control and postures. Ever see a yogi stop his breathing or do Nauli? Yeah, that's an endurance sport. At the risk of sounding like I just put my hair in a man-bun (even though I am a trained yoga instructor) you could say that my main competitor is my own mind and body—and it always will be. All I need to get satisfaction out of all this is a timer, some safe roads, resupplies I don't have to think about, and a lot of other co-suffers meditating, sweating, and riding their way to their personal best times. Hence Suarez Gran Fondo National Series from USA Cycling. I'm excited to see what I can do.