Woke up from a nap with a detailed idea for a mobile app that let's you put in all your favorite cycling kit clothing options and then lists them all based on the current local weather that the user can override with their own choices. It's just a convenience when getting ready to go out and could shave a bit of time and hassle off the decision making process before getting out and riding. The easier it is to get out in inclement weather, the more likely I am to do it every day. The question of which shoes to bring or "do I need toe covers" could be answered automatically. Over time the app could learn the users preference and make picks. Then later, I could allow the free version of the app to automatically make market suggestions based on what other cyclists are using and could even follow certain people to see what their picks and preferences are for a day. This data set could then get beginners started out really well by automatically making suggestions sourced off all the collected data.

This idea would totally work. The data set from all the input of what everyone is wearing alone we be worth creating. That data is absolute gold to a company wanting to see what people are wearing and how successful their products are penetrating the market and by what type of customer. Obviously, all of it would have an "opt out" option but most are going to want to see it all and crowd source their daily kit selection the same way they might crowd source the most popular routes like they do with heat maps.

This idea is the kind that I probably should pitch to an incubator for seed funding and with a proper business plan. It would be an easy win for Y-Combinator. Hell, I don't even care if people steal the idea from my public posting of it. I just wish it existed. If I were doing it I would do it as a progressive web app that can run locally or in a web browser. It could even have opt-out ads as well that would be targeted for the weather conditions of the day. *No one* is doing this. The app would pro-actively suggest best products based not only on demographic of the user/customer but also the current weather conditions and personal preferences like "run cold" or "run hot" on all the body parts for the individual. I'm tell you, this is solid gold for a start-up idea. It would *destroy* at Outdoor Retailer.

I wonder if Dustin Klein would be interested in associating with such a