There is no basis in fact for the statement that riding with headphones—or even ear plugs—makes a cyclist more dangerous or at risk than any other motorist, runner, or pedestrian on the road. In fact, they likely make most cyclists safer and probably protect the hearing of high-volume cyclists.

People making cycling laws in America are as stupid as the people designing bike lanes and that will _never_ change in America. Cyclists will _always_ be at fault for everything that happens anywhere near them. It's the American way. Accepting it has made me a happier person. That doesn't mean I have to accept their stupid opinions, however.

> Prolonged exposure to wind noise during motorcycle riding has been demonstrated to pose significant risks to hearing health. Research indicates that wind noise levels can reach approximately 90 dB(A) at 60 km/h, escalating to 110 dB(A) at 160 km/h. Such noise levels exceed occupational safety thresholds and can lead to both temporary and permanent hearing loss. https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC539364

Motorcycling studies about hearing damage from wind noise are plentiful and conclusive and yet for cyclists it is against the law in some places to ride with any ear protection or headphones at all. All serious motorcyclists know to wear special ear plugs while going on long rides and to get helmets that help. In fact, there's an entire sub-industry of ear protection for motorcyclists. Wind noise for cycling isn't the same as a motorcycle but it is still distracting and dangerous—especially for cyclists putting in high-volume and speeds. Let's face it, motorcyclists are _far_ more dangerous to humanity than _any_ cyclist. Yet no one dares question their use of "hearing protection."

The perception is that for some reason riding a bike _requires_ more hearing capability than _anyone else outside on the road_. This is totally bonkers. It is always the idiots on their phone, or with their radio up, or talking to the passenger, or yelling at their kids, or blowing through a crosswalk, who are the _actual_ problems I have witnessed on the road. *Every single time it has nothing to do with the cyclist listening to music while riding.*

I wish I had space to share every time I have witnessed this. Here are a few examples. One dude full-stopped in the middle of a busy suburban road to take a photo without any signals or anything. Trail people regularly do things with headphones in taking up the entire trail forcing me into the grass and dirt to get around them (one reason for an all-road bike) even though I am mandated _by law_ to provide "audible warning of passing." Other trail people are walking on high-speed mountain bike trails with headphones on completely oblivious. So many vehicles have pipes and radios so loud no one can hear anything at all when they pass. They put out decibels way above legal limits and yet no one _ever_ forces them to accept any consequences. On the whole, the idiots out there are _not_ the cyclists wearing headphones.

 If anything, cyclists are way more attentive—especially those putting in high volume on the daily. The actual truth is that wearing earplugs to block the wind and listening to things with bone conduction headphones makes me a much safer (and happier) cyclist. I promise you. I'm constantly rotating my head on a swivel and glancing behind me with peripheral vision.  The peace of the music and no wind helps me focus on the ride and be more attentive—not less. Having super loud wind noise on a descent makes it impossible to hear anything else, let alone *think* of anything else.

> [!TIP]
>  Even though they make sense with a motorcycle and a super heavy, visually restricting helmet on, rear-view mirrors are ridiculously stupid and dangerous when riding a bike because they distract your focus on what you are looking at. This is why you will never see a pro wearing one despite the much higher need to see behind them and the consequence of missing something up ahead. Learn to safely look at what you need to with your actual eyes, perhaps a topic for another day.

I actually can hear the important stuff _better_ with ear plugs in. That's because with the wind noise gone I can immediately distinguish the important noises, cars, sirens, even neighborhood kids laughing. On a very high-speed descent where the consequences are the most high I can actually here that stuff better. It's counter-intuitive, I know, but it's the truth. The audible contrast is immediately obvious. 

I do lose the birds, however, which is why I do like using bone conduction head phones so I can remove the ear plugs and take in the birds when I slow down (usually on a climb). This also allows me to easily take calls from my wife or talk to a new friend on a ride. I just take a plug out and put it in my cargo bib pocket.

What kind of ear plugs? I prefer the super cheap silicon ones. I but the long handle off so that it doesn't conduct the wind noise rushing past my ears. Don't worry, I can still get them out easily (but if you try this make sure you have a solution for your specific ears). I actually tried the super amazing, molded motorcycle earplugs but they are expensive and I tend to lose them so I have just kept using these. When the are in they create a vacuum in the inner ear which sounds amazing. It makes my bone conducted music sound like it is playing in a room next to me but that's fine. I don't want the music super loud, just as a backdrop to the amazing scenery unfolding before me at cruising speed. It's absolutely glorious. 