Anyone who has played around with racing or competition in any way over the years knows that buying the best wheels possible for a best-of-the-low-end bike is always better than buying a stock top-of-the-line bike. This is why brands offer frames alone so 

I've noticed that most age-groupers and club riders—even those who seem to have a lot of money to burn—don't seem to upgrade their wheels. Most just buy the highest end bike and keep the wheels it has. That's fine for most rich casuals but still a huge waste of money when buying the high-end bikes because if you want to upgrade the wheel-set you are essentially throwing away those stock wheels that cost a lot more than the stock wheels of the best-of-the-low-end bikes. This is why brands sell frames by themselves and people build out their favorite bike without waisting money like that on wheels. To be real, *very* few people you would ever meet in any group ride or local competition would be doing that (and paying for it themselves). This means that if you know the secret (buy low-end bike with top-of-the-line wheels) you can dominate on _most_ competitive rides, be they group or events.



For example, the $3000 Specialized Roval Rapide CLX II wheel-set, which dominates the world of pro cycling, will do more for my speed on my top-of-the-low-end $2000 Domane AL than upgrading all the way to the top of the carbon frame list. The ultra cheap wheels that come on my Domane AL are absolutely perfect to run 38c winter and all-road training tires. I can beat them up and never worry about it. Then, when I'm KOM or podium hunting I can put on the Rapides and Lycra superhero power ranger suit and make crazy huge gains in raw speed, even in the wind or with the usual intense rolling hills here in Lake Norman.

By the way the all-around Roval Rapide CLX II is 1520g compared to 1265g for Alpinist CLX II, only 255g difference.