Of course I'm to blame, but my obsession with giving something away for free that doesn't exist, my paranoia that if I don't do it no one will, that people are not capable of learning things without structure, all of that led me to stop doing the minimum to maintain my fitness and obsess about coding and writing tech stuff. I became a fat blimp because of it. No more. Just about every day for just over the last month I've done something to maintain or improve my fitness and I'll be damned if I let myself get derailed this time.

I did end up with some software that might be useful to some people, but let's face it, no one is going to use it. They will continue to use the inferior shit that has massive market share already (like Cobra). Sure I have something to use, but why an I making things with it? And why am I even writing books about using the terminal? All that everyone could ever want to learn about using the terminal—including *not* using Control-fucking-C instead of Esc in Vim like a moron—is already out there. I don't have to fight to counteract that absolute idiocy out there. In fact, I owe it to the *actual* smart people who put the time in and do the research to *not* hand it to them on a platter. The smart and diligent will be rewarded. Smart people *will* find the good stuff on their own. They do not need me.

And imagine losing 2-10 years off my life span just because I think some book is needed, or some software. I watch open source developers balloon up to 300 pounds (some of them). What do they think they are going to do when they die 20 years before their natural time? All that more time they could have spend on creating things the world needs wasted because they felt some artificial sense of urgency causing them to abandon simple best life practices. Imagine bragging about the shitty fast food you eat in a video while talking about the things you are creating.

Not me, goddammit. I'm so pissed off at myself right now for giving into those obsessive impulses that I'm going to hang a "before" picture on my bathroom mirror that says, "open source makes you fat." The very thought of even starting up my tech streams again makes me physically want to vomit. Being free from the stress of all of it has been so blissful I have no fucking intention of ever returning. Perhaps, one day, usually in the Fall, I will seek to achieve some balance again, but honestly, this time, probably not. I make a shit ton of money, have an amazing family and wife to snuggle with *every single night*, and my son will be living with us this year. I have *zero* fucks to give about my tech videos and livestream community anymore. I got really attached to many of those people, most of whom have followed me over to my rwxfun community where we talk about random things and just have fun together, but I *never* want rwxfun to go the way of DKLEIN and his sudden realization that the thing he loves to do was suffering because he was streaming it so much.