- I've decided to only use 750 bottles on long training rides and use 550s for group rides and competition and just top them off.
- After studying Chris Miller's strategy the first two bottles will have electrolyte and carb and the refills will just be water to keep things simple. 
- Carbs then later come from 1 or two "sugar flasks" with my a homemade gel in them so that water can vary depending on the heat for the day.
- If I've pre-fueled properly and dialed in my fat-burning system and start relatively slowly that should mean that the 2.5-3 hours are covered by the bottles and a smaller 150ml flask (assuming I get about 1g of carb per ml of gel). 
- The second 2.5-3 hours are covered entirely by the 250ml second flask, no dependency on 
- Water bottles just get water at the point so I can refill and take off in seconds instead of minutes. Any weight from the 

Somehow I will have to train my gut to take in at least 90 grams of carbs per hour at 300 FTP tempo effort. So 3x90 or 270g which is about one 250ml flask. However, I want to gradually increase this to 110 or even 120 per hour. That's 1x250ml and 1x150ml along. This means the only thing I need to do in the feed zones is refill water bottles and that's it.  Any weight penalty from carrying all my own nutrition will be made up in full minutes I save at the feed zone. I can make the smaller flask the first one for the first half of the race. That, combined with pre-fueling and early slower-pace fat burning, will cover the first half of the race (up to hour 2.5, the length of my daily training rides). Then, I can use the last 250 ml for 100g per hour for the final 2.5 hours. When the first flask is empty it is time to take a no-doze caffeine pill (200mg), then another in exactly one hour (if needed). 400 is the upper maximum and it takes an hour to metabolize.