Fitness has always been easier to lose than to gain. I know I've lost all my gains for three years with just three months of absolute inactivity and bad diet. I feel my fitness returning now—but I'm still very overweight. This is the sad reality of mortality. It can be hella depressing if I think about it too much. Mostly it just makes me *really* angry at myself for losing control. I feel like a lot of people get that way until they finally flip over to the "fuck it" stage and buy bigger clothes instead of trying to get healthy again and beating themselves up mentally any more. I see why that happens, for sure, I just don't *ever* want to have that happen to me ever again. (Do I sound like a verbose and overly contemplative Ryan Reynolds right now? I feel like I do.)

Why keep at it? I have been feeling the reminders in my bones and brain that I need to just commit and keep going.

Fitness is the one thing I have been able to control and cling to reliably my entire life. When it wanes I feel like my very soul is floundering. Fitness is my universal source of joy. It's my foundation that even goes deeper than any philosophy or religion, the one true thing that has remained constant. Nothing in my life has ever been as constant. Fitness—especially when done outside—is the single fastest way to let go of the shit around me and remember how connected to this big beautiful world I really am—including all the people in it—to stay positive. That doesn't mean I have to like them, or even talk to them, like *at all*. Just know that we are at least sharing something about this life experience thing together, at the same time. It applies whether I believe in God or not and shows deep respect for the single most important gift we have all been given by our common creator—life. It's easy to forget.

