There's a style of bike riding that most people who love to ride into their adult years tend to downplay: sprinting on quiet suburban roads. Before I ever raced my first crit I was racing them around the house and then the block and eventually on the way to my girlfriends house ten miles away. Now that I'm considerably older I find myself realizing that is still my favorite way to ride a bike. It makes me wonder how much we allow ourselves to be influenced by others about what we actually enjoy.

I imagine if I grew up riding in New York I'd be prone to riding like a bike messenger and would enter tons of ally cat races, in Indiana a long, lonely farm road rider, and Moab, a MTB XC trail rider (which I did a lot of as well). The point is what we learned to love stays with us and shamelessly admitting that is not only okay but will likely lead to the most enjoyment possible.

What is this type of riding? Well, you won't see a single YouTube video about it because it is a niche within a niche. Let's describe what it _isn't_ to help identify it.

It's not gravel riding. Sure there will be a bit here and where when the street has been ripped up for some reason or there's a tiny gravel bit attaching two paved sections but on the whole there ain't much dirt at all. The _clothing_ choices might be a lot closer to what gravel riders wear, however, possibly even the shoes.

It's not mountain biking. Mountain bikes are incredibly fun in the suburbs where you can build jumps and tracks in your yard around your first house on a new block but that is where the fun ends. Once those streets are pristinely paved and maintained by the suburb HOA you now have the best possible tarmac for suburban sprints and crits and mountain bikes just do not corner nearly as enjoyably on that stuff not even gravel tires.

It's not urban bike messenger riding. Suburban roads are notoriously hilly and riding a fixie around isn't nearly as fun. You can't really bunny hop and you absolutely cannot attack a corner with tight angles. You might wear the same shirt as a bike messenger but as a suburban sprinter you are going to want just a bit of aero to go with that style. The element of being intimately familiar with the vibe of the hood is definitely still a part of it, however. Knowing when traffic will be where and what blind corners to watch for and which stop signs to blow has that same messenger vibe. Plus suburban sprinters tend to care about looking cool more than looking like someone put a Formula One racer on a bike.

It's definitely not time trialing or triathlon. You absolutely do not want to fully tuck and wear all that stupid shit as a suburban sprinter. This is where you look more like a bike messenger or gravel rider. Having a TT bike in the suburbs is just stupid. Having a crit or endurance bike with fast wheels isn't.

It's not bike touring or adventure cycling. While there is more on the bike than a bike messenger (like water bottles) there definitely is not a light or rack or even a toolkit. The road bike looks like you mated a bike messenger fixie with a Specialized Allez or other bike made for speed and comfort. Endurance geometry is fine so you can get to the suburb one or two over and crush their KOMs.

It's not peloton pro riding, obviously. The closest to this will be that occasional time that you go full lycra to get that extra KOM even though pretty much every other day you have a t-shirt or gravel shirt on. Suburban sprinters also wear helmets both to keep the mom's from calling the cops on them and because they aren't as absolutely braindead stupid to put cool over safety like bike messengers do during their short selfish, fearless, stupid lives.

I admit I enjoy confusing people when they try and figure me out. My goal is to have the fitness and performance of a high-end amateur GC roady, the burst strength of a crit rider or low-end track sprinter, the line-picking and bike handling skills of a  messenger or XC racer, and the style, attitude, and look of messenger, gravel rider, and roady combined.

Why do I need to write this all down? I don't know. Something to do. No one really cares to hear me talk about it so I'll just talk to myself about it.