After a few years of cycling while livestreaming I've concluded my bike riding falls into one of the following categories:

| Percentage | Stream | Type                             | Example                                    |
| ---------- | ------ | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 92%        | 100%   | Safe suburban streets and trails | Goblin Tour/Road, Critical Mass            |
| 23%        | 100%   | MTB XC+ flowy trails             | Mazeppa, Jetton, Fisher, Mountain Creek    |
| 14%        | 70%    | Indoor Zwift training/racing     | Tour du Zwift, Z Racing                    |
| 4%         | 50%    | Paid supported group rides       | Mountains to Coast, Western Spirit Cycling |

I do love going fast on good roads and pretty trails. In fact, that's been most of my riding

I've always been an off-road, pump-n-flow XC bike rider at heart, one who enjoys the interval training of going up hill for a solid 10 minutes or so, and then just enjoying the payment for going up. I don't really consider myself a gravity rider because I really love long, flat scenic trails as well. 

I also love riding fast on and relatively  safe, scenic roads, light gravel, poorly maintained tarmac, or suburban streets. I suppose this falls under "endurance riding" or "all road." I don't consider myself a "gravel" rider even though I occasionally ride on gravel. Gravel riding has become XC MTB with road handlebars at this point.

Unbound looks absolutely stupid to me. That type of riding has all the suffering of both road and mountain biking with none of the joy, unless your joy comes from packing your bike over your shoulder through a mile of completely unnecessary mud. I've also never been attracted to cyclocross or having the skin on my palms fall off like Paris-Roubaix.  Those things are for people who think self-mutilation is actually fun to "push their limits." News flash, it's not and never was. Ask all the pros who talk down the permanent nerve damage in their hands and nether regions. Like the ultra-endurance cyclists who destroy their guts with all kinds of unrecoverable maladies. Pushing physical *fitness* limits is one thing, self-induced torture by way of mud, snow, rain, cold, or unrecoverable physical trauma is just plain stupid. Just watch pretty much any video of Colin on GCN. You cannot convince me he's "having fun" for most of it. The "fun" part comes at the end when the torture is over. That's not how most sane people define the word. I actually enjoy the rest of my life enough to want to be able to actively be involved with it.

Speaking of living life while enjoying cycling, I absolutely love swerving in and out of traffic on occasion like fixie riders. The adrenaline rush has its value. While I still don't have a fixie, I could really get into it. The main reason I don't is because as fun as it is I really do not have a death wish. Urban "messenger bike" riders die about every other month in New York. Even if I survived, ever major accident or altercation with a vehicle has happened while "sharing the road" with cars—especially here in North Carolina. I'll stay off the main roads, thank you very much.

In the end, I'm hard to categorize. If I'm honest, I'll take tarmac over gravel or dirt any day. I've had my fill of bing jarred to death but I'll take a little rattling over riding with *any* traffic. And keep me the fuck away from the hard-core road cyclists. The are some of the biggest assholes on the planet, and yeah, they are ruining a lot of gravel riding for many people they are infecting it with their unearned elitism and lycra. In fact, I moved to triathlon *primarily* to escape these insufferable assholes. I can smell their stank a mile away.

Another thing I hate about group riding with a bunch of roadies is the insane mix of experience levels and requirements. Everyone is always talking shit about someone for not calling out a pothole, overtaking incorrectly, or having the wrong fucking brakes. At a minimum, every single bump *must* be called out. This is exhausting and just stupid. It takes all the joy out of cycling. Sure the sound of 50 bikes in the peloton sounds amazing but its just not worth it. And if I want to play with tactics and attacks, I can do that on Zwift. This is why cycling esports are really taking off. Let's face it. Zwift contains all the best parts of racing without the bad. No classics racer is ever going to say they do it for the scenery and experience. They are so focused on the competition that the elements and scenery and just a distraction. Esports are much more approachable for *everyone*. In fact, I think with the renewed pro performance enhancing abuses, the controversy over stuff like female or male in the sport, and the ungodly money it takes to race that we will continue to see clueless people continue it while the bulk of humanity gets their competitive fix through Esports. It's already begun.

 [I'm a Dustin Klein fanboy](I'm%20a%20Dustin%20Klein%20fanboy.md). He perfectly personifies the type of riding and culture I enjoy.