Power really does not matter when hauling around 20% more body mass than the competition. It's not just watts. It's watts *per kilo*. For most mere mortals working on the "per kilo" part will produce the quickest performance gains before working on the watts. It seems obvious but with all the passion and hype to get good its worth a reminder. I know I need it.

It's been fun watching my performance increase for the same amount of effort but it took months before my weight on the scale actually changed. I had to ignore it. My training was working but not showing up on the scale. It was obvious I was slimming down but new muscle weighed more than the fat I'd been losing. Even though I was only doing long slow rides I was *still* developing muscle in those early months.

Now I'm standing at a crossroads. I can build my power and continue to carry around this extra fat (enough to keep me still in the "overweight" BMI category) or I can focus on losing the fat at the cost of losing some power. As much as I want my FTP to go up I still have work do to on the "per kilo" part. The fact that all events I'm in this year involve massive hill climbs the choice now seems obvious even if I don't like it. I need to lose as much weight with the least power loss possible.

At the end of the day it's just physics. Apply the same force to something that weighs less and it will travel faster. This is obviously why horse-racing jockeys and cycling classics pros like Tadej have 5% body fat and weigh 68 kilos even though they are 175 cm tall. And yes, someone that small can actually produce the same force as a swole person double that size.

Most people are not anywhere close to pro numbers when they pick up cycling. It's super easy to get sucked into all the hype and media out there related to competitive cycling that applies to trained riders with under 10% body fat—especially for those who *once were* competitive endurance athletes and have lost their way, like me. We immediately focus on everything about power and intensity to increase our power to get fast when, in fact, that intensity might just be making us even slower.

Cortisol is produced by stress—even good stress—and can make you fat in the worst way. It produces visceral body fat around the organs that directly causes inflammation and inhibits healing and recovery. Peter Attia attributes "the four horsemen" diseases that kill most adults to this one thing. I know because [I suffered from chronic inflammation](Chronic%20inflammation%20cured.md) after letting myself go for all the right reasons and, at times, felt like I would die any day. Cortisol also tanks testosterone production which is catastrophic for older riders who already struggle with T production from their youth. What does cortisol have to do with getting fast? It's the reason people eventually get fast but also the reason so many will destroy their gains by getting it wrong.

Intensity produces cortisol. All those videos about increasing intensity, strength training, and performance don't ever mention the high-paid sports medical professional who takes *daily* blood samples of the pros during training to ensure that the levels of cortisol don't increase and T decrease. The average person passionate about getting good is *not* going to get that right, ever. Instead, they are going to overtrain, flood their system with cortisol, get fat, frustrated, and give up.

The Cyclist's Training Bible and Coggins are relatively silent on this issue. It's not that they don't know about it or think it is unimportant. It's just not sexy. Most of their material assumes a level of fitness that most people coming to cycling just won't have—even if they had it at one time during their live. There is almost zero discussion of what a person with an "overweight" BMI can do, not a chapter discusses this at all. 

For whatever reason, the assumption seems to be person looking to train for performance already has a normal amount of fitness and body fat. This can make people who have never had that—or lost it—feel excluded and ignored. The problem is exacerbated by pros making jokes about [MAMILs](MAMIL%20-%20Middle-Age%20Men%20In%20Lycra.md) who actually are doing really well given all that life demands of them outside of their "hobby" no matter how passionate they are. 

> [!NOTE]
>Is it true that someone with 23% body fat should probably not wear tight-fitting lycra? Absolutely. How is it helping? Aero gains? Even at 20% aero savings all that extra weight is completely offset but if it helps that person stay motivated then why not (even it that's not my thing).
>
>I've witnessed a subtle but perceptible dynamic at many group rides and events in the past. People wearing lycra are already of a particular mindset when it comes to fitness and judgement in general. It's like walking into a Gold's Gym with a typical competitive cyclist body. As much as I don't care for it, it's just human tribal nature to do so. People gravitate toward others with similar personalities, passions, and, yes, physical characteristics.
>
>I find it even more interesting that ridiculously fat people stuffed into $500 kits with $10,000 bikes will look down on the absolutely fit people with older or cheaper bikes dropping them in their dust.