After living a life of daily adventure routine from home I now understand all the reasons why DNB living failed so catastrophically which has informed what has become the most successful year I've had in a while now.

***Attempted out of desperation.*** The only reason I even attempted it was because I desperately needed to get out of that apartment prison. That was the motivator. It made me irrationally optimistic that I could make it work.

***Daily routine was impossible.*** Realizing this is what triggered this memory. I would have had to wake up, break camp, then bike someplace where I could work for eight hours, then conclude work, find a place to sleep, and do it all over again. Add in the complexity of finding enough calories to fuel a 3-5 hour bike ride every day and the weather and you get a completely impossible daily routine. Hell, just biking three hours per day during sunlight is hard enough.

***Costs were overwhelming.*** I spent probably double the money I spend this year on two new, low-end bikes and kit to setup everything I thought I needed to live like that. Plus then I was doing to spend a ton more on food on the road and lodging. I still think this would have worked out if that was my only expense but it wasn't. I still had to pay for an apartment, car, insurance, and all the rest. The cost of food is radically lower now and the quality of the nutrition much higher. Then there is the cost of staying in a hotel or even a KOA. And also the cost of livestreaming.

***Sleep quality would have be horrible.*** One of the best things about my daily routine now is that I can have the highest quality sleep possible whenever I need it for recovery. This has been a _major_ factor in my health recovery and ability to keep doing it every day. There is simply no way my sleep quality would ever have been nearly as good constantly sleeping wherever I could find and feeling unsafe doing it.

***Danger was real.*** Sleeping near urban areas had the danger of vagrants unless I stayed in a campsite for $30 per night. Sleeping in remote locations had the danger of isolation and bears, yes bears. Those dangers practically disappear if I do a similar activity with a group of two or more other people—even better—when I do them with an organized, supported event. When I caught Covid on my car trip I realized just how vulnerable I was out there alone. I could have been even worse. I did have my Spot with me to get evacuated but not having those risks at all—without giving up the fun of those activities—has made all the difference in the world.

***Absence from Doris was unsustainable.*** Just about every night my beautiful wife lays her head on the same couch pillow my lap and cozies up in my snoopy blanket to fall asleep while we watch something together. It's become one of the greatest joys of my life, stroking her magical, glistening, grey hair, feeling her relaxed breathing as she falls into a pure, deep sleep. It's like I'm tucking her in or rocking her to sleep. Almost daily I go on a walk with her and the dog along the lake and talk about anything and everything. I cannot imagine ever giving that up now. At the time Doris wasn't available. She was busy doing other important things that I support. But these days she's chosen this time with me and I've chosen to be with her. I'm very confident I could live for a long time without her but why. Why not enjoy every moment I can with her as we share our frustrations and triumphs on a daily basis. Isn't that what marriage is really all about? Why would I _ever_ sacrifice that just to suffer randomly on the road in some ugly town.

***Livestreaming was a mistake.*** If I'm honest, one of the driving motivators for that big adventure initially was to have something to livestream that would be fun. The livestream community could watch over me and make sure I was okay since I was solo. Lots of other livestreamers do this but they simply do not have jobs or lives outside of their livestreaming. Just the stress of doing the livestream daily—not to mention the cost and logistics requirements—made the entire experience completely unfulfilling. Plus I couldn't even go to the places that I wanted because they could not be reliably livestreamed without a Starlink and I didn't have the battery for that. As much as I love my livestream friends, even they were not worth the cost to my personal health and wellness. And financially? I estimate that I've recovered about $500 per month in costs since I've stopped if you count the gear I have to refresh annually to keep it up and working.

***Stress was insurmountably high.*** Since living a life training for my best Gran Fondo efforts I've become acutely aware of the role of stress in life—particularly as it related to mental health and physical recovery from training. I've meticulously identified every little thing that might elevate my stress levels for any reason and removed everything that isn't essential. Livestreaming, for example, was one of those things. Whether the topic be good or bad it sent my cortisol levels and sometimes adrenaline through the roof. Combined with my alcohol consumption I blame it for my chronic inflammation disease that developed starting from the first day I started livestreaming. There is a direct correlation. Now imagine adding all of that to the stress of living and maintaining a full-time tech job while on the road. There was one day in particular when I realized that all my efforts and attempted strategies just weren't materializing and the costs were through the roof. Rather unexpectedly I just started to beak down while talking to Doris about it. That was when I realized the entire effort was pushing my mental health over the brink. I still have some of that same stress now because I have to constantly decide what kit and bike stuff to get, whether to do my own maintenance 