Yesterday during my test race pace ride for Cheaha, an upcoming UCI sanctioned event, I had a lot of time and suffering to get me to ask the important question: Why am I doing this? My inability to immediately produce an answer caught me off guard.

If the question was more general "why am I riding my bike" then the answer is easy. I love it for all the regular reasons, being outside, seeing interesting things, getting my heart rate up, breathing fresh air, mooing at cows, occasionally racing cars in traffic, and, of course, staying healthy and skinny which lets me wear cool clothes. I know, oh so vain, right?

The answer definitely was not "because I want to be the fastest 57 year old in all of these events." While I would enjoy that—and I frequently joke about it—that fundamentally isn't what motivates me. In fact, these events, if I'm honest, are more about being around people equally committed to improving their personal performance who also love riding their bike as much as I do. That's the appeal of Gran Fondos for me. I particularly like that there are timed segments and un-timed segments so you can—in theory—relax and focus on the parts that are timed. The only problem with that is that the peloton will leave and you lose the ability to draft if you actually enjoy those untimed segments. But do I *really* care about finishing with the lead group?

Riding for performance—particularly in a peloton—destroys the appeal of one of the best motivations to ride: the scenery. You don't have to become a full-on bike tourist to appreciate it. One of the appeals of the Gran Fondo tour is seeing entirely new country that I've never seen before, the variety of the routes and conditions. Yesterday's grueling performance test reminded me how much of the road and wheel directly in front of me is the only thing I get to see. People die if I don't. Just watching the TdF reminds me that none of these riders actually get to enjoy a single site in this spectacular European countryside. One missed piece of road furniture and bones break for all. That's just not fun, sorry, it's just not. At my age breaking a bone would be catastrophic.

All of this has reminded me of Dustin Klein, my favorite performance-driven, non-competitive YouTuber who only decided to get a power meter in 2025 and made a video justifying the decision. He's so into "the vibe" that his understanding and interest in performance is, well, more than a little naive and uninformed. As much as I love Dustin and wear his merch everywhere I wish I could inject him with a little Dylan Johnson, and possibly some Peter Attia, the other end of the spectrum where every decision they make is based on the science of performance, longevity, and dominating his favorite ultra endurance events. If you could genetically mutate them into a single being that would be interesting to watch.

This all left me asking a very tough question, what if I rode the Gran Fondos for fun instead of competition? I'd focus on the event, on talking to support people instead of breaking their arm grabbing a water bottle at 32 kph. I'd ride a fair percentage of the beginning of the ride in zone 2 talking to people I'm riding with, which would automatically put me in the mid and back of the pack where people actually consent to conversation instead of yelling shit at each other (something I've always detested about competitive cycling). What if I actually stopped to take a photo of a particularly beautiful part of the route? Hell, I'd actually have to carry all those extra grams just for the phone to take the picture. I'd probably also carry my tire repair kit because I would want to finish the route for fun, not competition and could keep going rather than getting just picked up by a SAG wagon.

Riding a Gran Fondo for fun instead of winning my age group radically changes my preparation at every level. There is less painful VO2 max and threshold work during the build blocks. There's more yoga and less horrible gym work to suffer through. There is more weight allowance on the bike for things that would keep me moving in the event of a "mechanical." And, most of all, there is much more slow zone 2 riding all season long. 

So many cyclists hate zone 2. I don't and you know what? Neither does the top cyclist in the world. Pogacar once said in an interview if all he could do was a bunch of 5-hour zone 2 rides that's what he'd do. When he did that interview you coud see the same thought behind his eyes like for so many other pro cyclist. They get tired of cycling. The pressures of being a pro that motivated them for a while have faded and now they just want to ride their bike and push themselves. It's the kind of wisdom that comes with age and experience after oh so much suffering. That's what I have, age and experience. I actually want to *enjoy* riding my bike more than riding it fast. Call me old. I don't care. Some will perhaps judge my motivations and joke about me needing knee-tape and a rear view mirror attached to my helmet but I don't need to even think about that. Most who would joke about such things probably won't even be able to ride as well as I do at my age bloating out like an old Lemond, giving up bike riding all together because of decades of PTSD. Not me. Maintaining a love of bike riding is far more important than any podium spot I could manage to capture. You know what? If I do capture one, great, but it's no longer my focus—at all.

