I once saw an interview with a 70-year-old who kicked ass on a century road race. I wish I could find it. I'll never forget him answering a question about him compared to everyone else his age. "It's about priorities" was his answer. 

Matt Ryder crosses America by bike and does a lot of other stuff. He explains he manages it by working for various jobs and organizations that he truly believes in to work up enough money to just ride his bike for as long as he wants. Then he goes back and works some more. He's not an "influencer" by trade like so many others. His life priorities are centered around what gives him joy. He's one of the most inspiring human beings I've ever run across on YouTube because of it.

Whether it's about staying fit or living your life the way you want, it always comes down to what a person _actually_ prioritizes, what they _do_, how they spend their money, how they make their money. With whom do they associate? What we document our priorities to be and what they actually are is so often completely out of sync and, let's face it, hypocritical.

We've all been that hypocrite and we've all been that authentic person for someone else. That balance is in constant flux. I think back to February 2023 when I bloated up to 93.3 kilograms mostly because of being locked in a horrible apartment situation with black mold, stress, booze, gaming, and livestreaming. What the hell was I thinking? I had lost all my priorities from every other time in my life. I cannot even articulate what I thought my priorities were at that time. It's like I had no priorities as was being "driven by the winds and tossed" (James 1:5).

When I see a guy with a family on Strava get up at 5:30 AM to ride in circles in the cold dark to increase his base fitness before headed off to work and to support his family I see his priorities. This is a wonderful thing about Strava. "If it's not on Strava it didn't happen." The great thing about Strava is not the ability to boast, which is definitely a motivator and as fun as any video game, but to demonstrate what are priorities are and reward others who share those priorities. This is why I think even amateurs should post to Strava.

I obviously prioritized my family as well, despite the events leading to the divorce. I also commuted 20 miles to work and 20 miles back every single day on my bike no matter what the weather demonstrated that fitness and simply getting outside was a major priority in my life. I would do pushups with my toddlers on my shoulders and throw them in the air as well like living, laughing medicine balls. I get reminded of that seeing all these young families every day on my Goblin rides. I still have memories and images indelibly frozen into my psyche from experiences I had during those rides from my 20s and 30s. I find that recently, as I return to my cycling fitness roots, I'm having the same personal experiences all over again but in new and exciting ways that just motivate me even more.

What are my priorities going into my senior years?

That's easy. I _will_ be that 90-year-old dude still riding his bike with skin that bears the proof of decades of living an active lifestyle, so help me God. Hopefully my knees will continue to work. And, by the way, what better way to demonstrate my love of God than taking immaculate care of the most valuable gift God's given me: my life and body. It's definitely a priority.