The first thing you should look at on Strava is time, distance, elevation, and average speed—not watts. Some on Strava put out major watts on their rides but have relatively low average speed for the same distance and elevation as others. There are lots of explanations for this but one very possible explanation is that they are simply less efficient than the others.

Almost no one on the Internet talks about efficiency. I've heard a few wise YouTubers talk about how very little FTP actually matters. Watts are just a starting point. Ultimately what matters is how fast someone gets to the finish line and ahead of others if competitive. Sure that has to do with power but not nearly as much as riders think when comparing themselves to others. FTP is a thing you can immediately spout off that everyone understands, unfortunately. Few understand how completely stupid comparing FTP actually is.

So what is valuable for comparing?

Watts per kilo is Zwift's measure but it leaves out so much. Technique and skills are completely ignored. These include climbing without losing energy and aerodynamics both in the ability to hold an aero position and the research and financial sacrifices to pick the right bike and kit for the ride. These are massive contributors to efficiency.

W/kg also doesn't measure the skills and tactics used to chase down an attack or hold a lead. These things cannot be represented on Strava at all. Most group rides don't even have accurate measures of this because of the traffic and stop signs involved. Sanctioned UCI events, however, have a better chance of making a true performance comparison, which is why I am going to to them even if they really hurt and I don't necessarily place well.

HR could be a good thing to compare if we could get accurate numbers. This is why Pogacar prefers HR data over everything else. Watts are often unreliable and highly relative to the person, bike, and power meter. In fact, it makes it a bit worrisome that Zwift competitions rely so heavily on them. The problem is that people don't share their HR data on Strava, usually, and probably for good reason. Everyone's heart rate is very personal and completely relative. It's not like Strava has a way to post data relative to Lactate Threshold Heart Rate. Okay, they kinda do, but clearly Strava is watts-centric. It's also not like you could ever compare LTHR with others on a group ride. My 145 is above average for my 55 resting and 179 max but it only has that meaning in context, 81% with 85-88% being most elite athletes, which is pretty damn good for a 57-year-old.
