My Specialized Torch 2 shoes are my favorite shoes to ride in, by far. They are solid road shoes that you can walk limited distances in without the fear of falling over but I would never "bike and hike" with them. But, then again, I don't need to.

My concern about being able to bike-n-hike is completely irrelevant in the "all road" scenario. This is _not_ gravel riding. I can enjoy the "spirit of gravel" and fashion of gravel riding without riding a gravel bike. If I ever had to walk more than a block I'd call an uber (or Doris) or make sure to bring walking sandals (Zeroes) so I could just walk. The worst roads I will ever be on would be just slightly muddy or minimal gravel so I never have to do any significant walking in my cycling shoes. This means my road shoes are perfect.

Road shoes are—without a doubt—the best for power distribution. Plus the wider platform keeps my feet from ever getting numb since all the power is distributed over such a wider area than any SPD cleat ever could. Although road cleats are super stiff they are remarkably comfortable to walk into a bookstore for coffee, or a restaurant to get a burrito. They have a huge pad for the heel so not afraid of grinding it away.  Plus my shoes are black so they look pretty normal when I have socks and overshorts on.

I cannot believe I was so conflicted amount running gravel shoes versus these. Even on my epic long ride days I'm super confident in this decision. If and when I actually ride a substantial amount of gravel every day I'd consider the gravel alternative and get the gravel shoes to go with it. However, I'd have to move from my current location to ever justify that decision. There is just no gravel that I can ride to from my current address in Davidson. There are, however, a *ton* of mountain bike trails, which is why I got a Trek Roscoe to go with my all-road bike.