When I look back over the best memories that managed to stick in my old brain most involve having fit fun with  family and close friends. Here are a few:

- Chasing my dad down back side of Murphy's Hogback on Moab White Rim trail
- Sea kayaking on the Carolina coast with my young wife and kids
- Rocking to Zeppelin at 5am headed to the ski slopes with my high-school buddies
- Racing crits with a small audience of my closest friends who just loved the vibe
- Running the Timpanogos half-marathon with my sister and her husband
- Big Dog Du with friends from church that led to starting triathlons

I never really had as much fun when I was paid for it. Being a river guide was fun, but not nearly as fun as doing the same thing with my closest friends. In fact, I never really became super close friends with the other guides who has been doing it a while. Same for guiding on the White Rim trail. I did it several times with my dad but all the times I was paid to guide for someone else it was just artificial and flat even though I did my best always to make everyone feel like they had a friend.

I've done plenty of events and activities that felt flat because I didn't have family and friends with me to enjoy them together. My first full marathon, Thunder-road, I did entirely by myself. I was alone in a sea of people and could barely drive myself home afterward. I can't count how many 5-10k runs I have done where I felt like a stranger the whole time. In fact, this has caused me to drop races I have paid for in the past because I just don't feel like being that lonely guy wandering around looking for friends. I'm pretty good at making friends with strangers but it is just so much more satisfying to do these things with people you can hug at the end because you have known their struggles and triumphs for most of your life.

I've also never cared to torture my spectators with long events that have nothing for them to do but sit and wait for 4-8 hours. I remember feeling the crushing guilt of making loved ones sit and wait at the finish line. Sure they would be full of smiles and support and I love them for doing that but the act of making them suffer through that time and blow their weekend on my behalf has always been too much for my psyche. Sometimes I would even say, "Just have a great time on your own" and I meant it. It really depends on the person supporting me. Sometimes it is someone who absolutely loves the vibe and to feel like they are a part of it. Sometimes it is a person who normally does the activity with me but can't for some reason that day. But usually it has been someone who is very busy living their own best life and waiting around for me would be absolute torture—especially when there are art galleries they could be perusing instead. This is the reason I dream of meeting—at least temporarily—who has the same values and aspirations.

So participating in events does not *ever* mean you will make friends—especially competitive events. Everyone has their own jitters. The level of person who is normally riding at my level is also super full of nerves and probably is focused on the event and not making a random new friend who will go away very soon. Perhaps those competing regularly in the same events who know one another have some mutual respect. The ultra-competitive types are also far less likely to become a random friend unless you check off all the boxes of compatibility and respect. Am I running the right tires? Did I pay enough for my bike? Why are not in aero kit? Why *are* you in aero kit? It's exhausting and frankly just not fun most of the time. By the way, this includes typical informal group rides. There is certainly more chance to meet people, but usually only if you show up every time and frankly large group riding just isn't a time to socialize. There is too much to focus on. Perhaps at the coffee stop.

I have concluded that the absolute best use of my time, therefore, is to use all my cruise/tour/scoutmaster skills to regularly organize events for my family and friends above all others. Sometimes I can piggy-back on a family event that is already happening, like at a reunion a few of us will get together for the optional canal ride along the bank of the canal we all played in as kids, or a few bike or running laps around Bear Lake while the rest of the family eats and hangs out at the beach, or planning a multi-day White Rim trail ride that costs as little as possible.

I spend an ungodly amount of money on events and supported rides every year and burn up tons of vacation time. Why not do that for my own family and friends?