Watched *Inspired to Ride* with Mike Hall and Juliana Buhring in 2015 doing one of the first TransAm Races—a movie which inspired Lael Wilcox to later beat both of their times and take the world record for around the world trip. 

The biggest conclusion from the movie is how life-threateningly dangerous adventure cycling on any roads with traffic is and how absolutely stupid you have to be to ride the classic TransAm route. Mike Hall would later have the fastest Tour Divide time. Then he'd be splatted on the windshield of a fucking moron blowing through a red light at 60 mph in 2017 in Australia while Mike was simply waiting for the light. In the movie, more than half didn't finish, one was hit by a car and destroyed his bike needing to get a new one, and at least one of the bike tourers, Julianna Abernathy, on the same journey would be killed in a hit-and-run while riding to "remember Martin Luther King." Later in 2017, 61-year-old Eric Fishbein of San Luis Obispo, California, was struck from behind by a vehicle while riding on K-96 near Leoti, Kansas. He died at the scene. There are countless others who have silently died on American roads while adventure cycling. Adventure Cycling Association has started pushing many routes instead of the class TransAm because of it.

The Bike Nonstop US director actually has this to say:

>**Can riders still ride the classic "Trans Am Bike Race"?** Yes, but we ask all riders to consider why the event director has changed the format before doggedly pursuing a race on roads that are heavily trafficked. This is a very personal plea from myself, the event creator and director, Nathan Jones asking you to consider embracing this new format. I understand respecting tradition and wanting to pursue the same routes as our heroes. That said, I have to formally ask for respect as the director of this event. I am asking you to really take to heart these changes and embrace something new. I understand fully what the classic Trans Am Bike Race means to people, but I often feel like many people never understand my perspective on all of this. While I do not fault anyone for their perception of this event, I am insistent upon everyone challenging their perspective. For my mental health, I thank you for understanding.

When the event organizer *begs* people not to ride the classic route and people are still doing so and getting killed *every year* you have to wonder if it is even worth doing. The original TransAm route was created in the 70s when these roads had far less traffic traveling at maybe 60 mph maximum. Now the speed limits are in the 80s. The numbers do not lie, statistically, anyone riding the TransAm classic has a 1 in 60 chance of simply dying because of it, a 1 in 30 chance of not finishing, and a 1 in 20 chance of permanently ruining their health in some way. Everyone has a 1 in 93 chance of dying in a car crash over the course of their lives. These chances of death dramatically increase when the bike rider is no longer metabolically fresh and alert, which is impossible after attempting to cross America in less than 30 days on a bicycle.  