I've explained why I don't live for tech a lot on live streams, why I don't constantly dump hours into streaming about tech topics, but it bears repeating. Technology is fundamentally a tool with which to build and maintain other things that are essential and bring joy. Learning Linux and coding might be fun for a while but ultimately they lose their appeal on their own if the result of using them isn't something I value.

Being able to create any kind of system or software that I want for myself is extremely satisfying and motivating. One good example of all this is how my knowledge of various technologies has helped me maintain my IRL livestreaming from anywhere in the world. Being able to contribute to these things is a huge motivator for me.

Being able to make crazy good money because of these skills and never have to worry about a job is also very motivating. I do love working with them more than some other jobs that I could be doing that make much less money. I remember staying up almost all night when I had a young family to learn the tech of the day because it allowed me eventually to work from home for more than 30 years and make a really good income. I was supremely motivated by that with four young kids and a wife who depended completely on my income. Had I not been Mormon I very well might have remained in the travel and tourism field and made considerably less.

I am still motivated to help others empower themselves with tech skills, if they want to. But it is so important that they understand these fundamentals. Teaching others tech skills is perhaps the most valuable way I can give back to the world, much more valuable than my working in a soup kitchen or helping homeless people sleep through the night in a gym. But helping others in this way requires that I first get myself and my family to a stable place. Without stability at home my top priority will always be to restore that stability.

