My Mormon grandma burned her lips off sucking on a car exhaust pipe until she died when she killed herself almost exactly one year after losing her husband, a war veteran who struggle with alcoholism after the war and sold vacuums for a time even though he was a brilliant man becoming an accountant later.

My Mormon mother would never tell that story in her "historical" journals that the obsessively keeps at the emotional and financial expense of everyone else in her household. She bitched about what a horrible father my grand father was *all the time*. I used to get so  annoyed suffering through her PTSD from being raised by those parents, a man who wasn't there to even see her born because of the war, and a mother who had to raise her and others alone.

Doris made me believe in the idea of “soul mates,” a concept I had long dismissed as something people use to justify unhealthy co-dependency. But in the end, I was only fooling myself again. Suddenly, “the Universe” seemed to want something different for us—something sparked by my inability to suppress the trauma and rage inside me. Much of that pain stemmed from her rapid rise in the local art scene, which left me effectively living a single life while still married, until I finally cracked and exploded in a way that gave everyone the excuse they needed to just move on. At best, it was a good ride while it lasted. But it didn’t last.

Nothing lasts forever—especially relationships. Everyone and everything you love right now will eventually die or disappear. The only universal truth is death and entropy. Repeat after me: I cannot depend on anyone or anything but myself. The sooner you realize that, the sooner you will start making decisions that bring you *true* happiness.

In the Ashtanga Yoga tradition this concept of non-attachment, non-possessiveness, and non-greed is called **Aparigraha** one of the five Yamas. Practicing this is a big part of achieving true peace of mind, the primary goal of Ashtanga Yoga. Practicing non-attachment helps to free the mind from constant desire and anxiety and allows you to accept change and loss gracefully, unlike me.

Losing Aparigraha happens gradually and quietly. Every sacrifice you make "for the greater good" is a step toward attachment, dependency, and greed. This has been how I've always lost it. At first I give up small things that collectively make me me, working with the homeless, eating fish, cooking and shopping for myself, doing my own laundry, paying my own power bill, paddle boarding in the sun, playing guitar, writing, dancing, cycling. Then bigger things start to go and I start giving away larger portions of my independence like losing all control of my finances, any input on the place in which I live, what car I drive, what job I take "for the good of the family" or even to have children of my own. Pretty soon my entire identity is defined by a dependent relationship to someone else and not myself.

This romantic idea that another person is required to make one whole is perhaps the biggest lie foisted on us by religion, music, movies, and art. It's not just wrong and dangerous. Another part of the lie is that those who don't have a family will never be happy. What utter bullshit. In fact, these liars goes so far as to suggest that anyone who doesn't comply is selfish, or at the very least, self-centered. 

But what is actually wrong with wanting to live an independent life? You *should* be centered on yourself, within yourself, balanced and able to enter any relationship as independent equally balance individuals and—more importantly—able to leave any relationship with the same strong independence at any time should the need arise *for any reason*. 

Practicing Aparigraha is especially true before bringing children into this world. While it is true that parenting is fundamentally about dependency, families are the strongest when the parents are—for the most part—independent *before* they choose to have kids *and after* and act on that decision consciously. That way if one of the parents becomes unavailable for any reason the kids have a stable, strong parent remaining. And if society as a whole focused on this, both parents could be taken and other stable, independent parents could step in with the least consequence or pain. Moreover, parents who teach their children from the youngest age to practice Aparigraha teach them to become the best they can be. They learn to learn quickly and detach from their parents sooner and in more productive ways.

Those who achieve Aparigraha exude self-confidence, independence, and strength. This makes them strong and ready to face everything life will throw at them until, eventually, they face death without flinching. Occasionally, fear flickers in their eyes but is snuffed out by their pure knowledge just how fleeting everything really is, the good and the bad. When they love, they love deeply but know it is temporary. When the feel anger, they turn that energy into action knowing it too will pass. This is how Viktor Frankl made it through the Nazi concentration camps without ever handing over his will and soul to his captors. It is one of the most important secrets to happiness in life.