Living every moment with a brain that evaluates every single experience as being worthy of sharing on social media is a form of metal illness. Recovering from it is harder than dropping 20 kilos of body weight.

It's difficult to accept in today's look-at-me society but doing things entirely for the pleasure of doing them for oneself without any record of it ever being made is completely fine. In fact, most of humanity's existence has been composed of actions that no one ever remembers except by the people who did them. Sure having a record is nice perhaps to help others learn. It's the human way to share generational knowledge in written form. But do we have to obsess about every single thing? Absolutely not. In fact, if you do you are probably mentally ill.

These days Strava has been where I've been sending my bike stuff. I admit it is fun to get kudos but the main reason I do it is to record my own progress and make new friends who happen to be as obsessed as me with performance cycling. Social media just helps us bump into one another more frequently than we would without the Internet on the street.

Another hard lesson learned is that when I share something because it *might* help someone a lot of people think I'm sharing it for narcissistic "show off" reasons. They bring their own baggage and project motivations on me that having nothing to do with reality. One way to address that is to just not share it and be mindfully in the moment taking in the experience and the memory.

Yesterday walking around Birkdale alone I had that experience of being present. I replayed memories of livestream moments at different locations with fond recollection but realized how different it was to just *be* there instead of having a camera or a phone pointed as something—or worse—changing my path to find targets for my camera to capture. Thankfully, I've almost fully recovered from that way of thinking.