Women have been dismissed for their contributions as *only* homemakers since the dawn of time, but there is something insidious in the acknowledge of their home building accomplishments that is concealing  the darkness many men in those homes have survived for ages: having no legitimate say in how the home is made.

Women regularly, consciously or subconsciously, bully their men into submission and acceptance of *their* home, not the home the man would have created. Many men aren't even allowed into their own kitchens, or to put their own food in the refrigerator. Some women make trivial gestures to give the men something to hold on to, but never anything of consequence. 

You can be sure any time company is coming over the "homemaker" is going to see the home the homemaker created because it would "look poorly" on the woman. This is why some women are so bent out of shape about ever showing anyone their home who is not someone they approve of walking into the home for fear of being judged. Even if this behavior is ironically a product of the patriarchy's disease affecting the psyche of these homemakers forcing them to care so much about the home in the first place, it still exists and is affecting relationships with good men who want nothing to do with old stereotypes.

This quiet, passive aggressive action permeates many mens lives forcing them into the garage or their "special" rooms. They simply are not allowed equal say in what goes into the kitchen or front room. Men are not allowed to have an opinion about any other part of the home and are regularly shit on for having bad taste and opinions not worthy of consideration. If a man brings something up—even in a small way—they are hit with "What? Don't you value my contribution to building this home *for you*?!" No man escapes that trap alive. There's no way to say "I love so much I would just like more of a say about what actually goes into the front room and kitchen." If a man even attempts that, they are lumped with the patriarchy that caused their plight in the first place. The result? Most men simple acquiesce because "it isn't worth a fight" or more usually the man loves his wife and feels horrible for hurting her feelings. The woman has built is very nice to live in even if it has no *real* indication that the man even lives there. So the man buries his legitimate desire to help create the home he lives in perhaps even scolding himself as being selfish for even wanting that and adds that damage to a pile of internal resentments that by itself doesn't hurt anything, but when combined with many others can eventually destroy any relationship. 

This entire thing is satirized and socially codified by the scene in The Christmas Story where the dad insists on putting an ugly fish-net stocking lamp in the front room. The passive, kind wife and mother is portrayed as the victim of this horrible man's relentless oppression. Situations like that are certainly real enough to warrant fictionalizing and laughing at, but many men's legitimate hope for a quality home that they help create is discarded with the laughter.

I have seen this over and over again in my own life and the lives of other men. Sometimes the behavior I have witnessed in others was so bad it actually qualified as hateful spousal abuse. The man was unwilling or unable to leave the relationship. I have heard these women shout, "You don't know anything. You don't even know what you want. Just be quiet!" talking to them from another room during a holiday, usually cooking a meal from the kitchen where the man isn't even allowed to enter unless given permission. I'm not making this up.

Men today don't get to talk about these real concerns because women rightfully have taken the spotlight after millennia of horrible treatment mostly by misogynistic, horrible men. The good men now have to pay for the sins of these assholes by shutting up and letting these women, some more horrible and overt than others, continue to abuse them in ways that no woman would ever put up with now, or worse, they start *projecting* onto these nice men everything they have studied and been abused with their entire lives. This is not unlike police officers who become rabid racists because they happen to work in an area where most of the crime they witness every day is from a particular demographic.

The first step toward correcting any wrong is understanding it and men being abused in subtle but important ways need to know they are not alone.

Can you imagine creating an entire book or art practice dedicated to the needs of quietly repressed men who had no part of the abuse so many women have suffered? You would probably find your home the focal point of a picketed protest against you. 

Sadly, this is why so many young men are being radicalized. Understanding how this is happening is so important to finding a solution for *everyone* but it will require some woman with a megaphone to say, "We love men. Men are awesome" without qualifying it with "but most men are absolute shits and we do not need them, ever." Right now the one people saying that are wacko Fox-news correspondents and right-wing, Christian nut jobs. These men *just want to be seen for who they are* like the women who are saying they haven't been for so long. Equality does not require taking rights and respect away, it means giving them to everyone.