Since returning to a simple life focused on myself, family, and job everything has improved. As I recover from too much FOOMO (fear of others missing out) I focus on *nothing* else. Everything in my life has improved, my relationships, my physical and mental health, my finances, and my surroundings.

After living more than a month with this radical simplification of priorities I have come to realize just how high the cost of being spread to thin has been on my mental, physical, and financial well being in particular. It will take me years to recover but I am now recovering in substantial ways that are obvious to myself and anyone who truly knows me.

Simple is just better. It physically is. The more energy directed in fewer directions the stronger that energy is. The greater the energy the higher the momentum. The higher the momentum, the greater the inertia to maintain that momentum. This shows up in the form of habits and routine and mental pathways and mindsets that have staying power. 

Selfish isn't selfish. There is absolutely zero requirement for any person on this planet to care for  anyone but themselves, their family, and their job. Then, if resources remain they can be applied toward others. It's like the airline attendants always say, "give oxygen to yourself first before your children." Religions and other people with agendas don't like this because it robs them of their parasitic power to control you. They warp your mind into thinking that caring for yourself is selfish and shallow. It absolutely is not. In fact, it takes a tremendous amount of will power to *truly* put one's own well being above that of everyone else with the intent of freeing themselves and eventually providing surplus resources (time, money, energy) to others.

If everyone *truly* took care of these three simple priorities in that order then the overwhelming needs of those suffering would hardly exist because every person and family and employer would be okay and independent. Those with legitimate needs from "acts of god" could then depend on the collective surplus of resources from everyone to come to help them without any impact to their own wellness and independence.

Every single societal problem can be traced back to someone thinking they are the exception, that they don't need to take care of themselves or responsibilities, that the needs of others around them are more important than them taking care of themselves first, or that once they are good they don't need to help others at all. It's a balance and humanity has never figured this out and likely never will. Everyone has to arrive at this understanding on their own, some earlier than others.