I fucking hate drafting. I always have. It's the reason international triathlons are such a fucking joke. Someone can be a strong swimmer and have their lead obliterated by sucking off the wheel of the pack in the bike leg that follows. International triathlons are just so broken. They really shouldn't even be allowed let alone the *only* form of olympic triathlon.

It's no surprise, then, that the only competitions I value are those comparing who can outlast and go faster than the other person. That's what attracted me to triathlon even though I *detest* the stupid shit we have to wear for it to be competitive. 

Perhaps this is all why I'm really gravitating toward [performance adventure cycling](Performance%20adventure%20cycling%20FTW.md) and ultra events like Bike Nonstop US. These events test my physical fitness, metal acuity, as well as my mechanical, navigation, and logistical skills. I'll take pushing my limits against someone else pushing theirs in this way over seeing who can suck wind best off the pack any day. Who gives a shit if someone "is attacking" and whether to "chase them down." I certainly don't and never have. I'll admit it is fun once in a while just like weaving in an and around traffic like a bike messenger is fun once in a while.

Picking the right tires and whether to go with electronic or mechanical shifting is even a fun competition. I read all of Lael Golstein's interview and the entire time was thinking how much I would dominate over people who cannot even repair their own fucking chain or don't know to run tubeless.

Knowing when to "burn a match" takes on entirely different meaning when doing ultra-endurance events. The level of intelligence being tested versus the competition is significantly greater than that required to decide when to listen to the coach yelling in your radio ear piece. Perhaps this is why pro cycling is in serious decline while ultra-endurance, timed-segments, and gravel are continuing to grow very rapidly.